my name is Kyoshi Niigata and I'm the
founder and our director of a Japanese
taiko group based in Toronto called
Nagata sha-2 I'm of Japanese descent I
was actually born in Canada raised in
Toronto since early childhood when I was
about 12 years old I was heavily
involved with the Japanese community at
the Japanese Canadian Cultural Center
and they had a taiko group there which I
joined and played with for 10 years and
I really caught the taiko drumming bug
so I moved to Japan after I finished
University to study taiko professionally
with a number of professional groups in
Japan then I came back to Toronto and
started my own group and I got to shot
too and our groups have been around for
15 years so I've been playing taiko for
the last 31 years now taiko drumming is
a ancient Japanese art form taiko means
traditional drum and it's existed in
Japan for over 2,000 years and if you go
to some temples and shrines you'll see
some very old drums you know 400 years
old and some of the drums can get up to
about 8 feet in diameter so they're
really huge and a long time ago and even
to this day the drums are played to
communicate with kind of the gods above
so farmers would play the drums to pray
for rain and a bountiful harvest or
fishermen would play the drums to pray
for a good catch when they went out to
sea to go fishing so the drum was a
really important instrument for
communication especially with the
spirits and the gods above I guess what
I really like about taiko drumming is
the physicality of it it's not just
about music and rhythm but you have to
use your whole body kind of your mind
and your spirit when you play the title
even when the drummer's play they do
these shouts called ki shouts of
encouragement
so I like the whole the holistic aspect
of it that you have to use all the
different parts of body and mind in
order to play the title and it also
helps me to connect with my Japanese
roots as well I think the biggest
challenge for any group is that when
you're playing as an ensemble everyone
has to be on the same page you all have
to be playing together so if there's a
weaker player sometimes the song can't
sound very good
so everyone all has to be kind of at the
same level of plane and the same
mentality also the drums are very big so
we have to transport a drums where every
go and that's quite challenging to move
all this equipment around and to fly
them all over the place so there's a lot
of challenges even finding a studio
where we can make a lot of sound is a
big challenge in the city it's totally a
team effort yeah it's it's very much
like any sport in a way you know like
basketball or baseball everyone has a
certain role to play and if there's a
weak link in the team then the whole
team suffers so it's really a team
effort you know when we played the title
to Canadian audiences we really hope
that we're sharing part of Japanese
culture in Canada Japanese music and
Japanese kind of spirit and soul but
what's really cool too is apart from
members in our group for Japanese we
also have Chinese and Vietnamese who are
learning about Japanese culture but also
sharing Japanese culture with Canadian
audiences as well you know we welcome
anyone who we think is you know good
enough to play in our group and it's
passionate about drumming yeah
you